:
Hi everyone and welcome to Upna College. today's video, we about OOPS, Object Oriented Programming Systems. We learn what classes and objects are what the code we were in the main function meant, along with inheritance, encapsulation, polymorphism, and abstract concepts. We some new keywords. Now, OOPS is important for two reasons. First of modern programming languages are on the concepts of So it's important how OOPS works so we one language to another object-oriented language, then concepts are clear from The second reason is that in placements, the interviewer us OOPS concepts. So it's important to those concepts, how to apply them because sometimes written, They will code to see that this concept of and a code. This Java and C++. That's our concepts should Now the class and you the notes in the description box in which Java OOPS is prescribed. If you C++ OOPS, then we have already lecture notes in a separate video, so you can go see that. We 15 concepts in 15 different videos. In this video, we will cover the entire OOPS! Let's start with the classes and objects of Now, if talk about classes and objects, then classes and objects were in programming so that we real-world problems through coding and programming. Now, we example of Maruti 800, then Maruti 800, a blueprint must Then to the factory, everything have set up And then all the cars came according to the blueprint. So if classes and objects, then every car Which of Maruti's factory. And blueprint became our class. So programming, all the entities That entity can any object, can a person, it be an animal. If we anything into world of then we it an object. the instructions what properties will what actions can an object what things can all that blueprint is in a class. So this is meaning of class and object. Now another example of pen. Now we the example If we pens, how we distinguish them? How will understand We will understand differently to their color. For one pen is red, one is blue, and one is black. Now, these pens in Java code? We a class and then some objects. Let's see how. First of we to a public class in in every single file. As soon the file name is oops.java, a public class can called oops. Now, we the class oops. Apart from let's we another class. And this class Pen. So, Pen class. Now, we will the blueprint of What is the properties of The first property that  is its color. We have defined string color. Apart from it its brand or its type. So let's  a string in  which we type. Now what can Either it a wall point pen or it can a gel pen. So these two types.  Let's it brand copy. So, we these two properties in our blueprint to make a Apart from we a function with Like the pen's job is to So, function will perform writing. So, the functions, the methods that we earlier, we are implementing here. So, we some methods So, the that are defined we them methods. So, we a function here. public void system.out.println  writing. Something. So, this way, we a class, i.e. blueprint of the pen. In the blueprint have the color, the type of and a function which the pen performs, which is to write something. So, it writes Now, we the blueprint. We only the blueprint. We Maruti 800 and the showroom. Now, what will is, we will objects. Now, we the objects We are to in our main function. So our main function comes in our public class. This is with and this is our public class. Oops! We will our main function public static void main which takes a string of arguments in Now this main function, we our first object of the pen. We way like this. i.e. type will be class name i.e. and we have is equal to new pen These are the two parentheses So, we a pen Now, this pen, to the color and type. So, let's that is a blue pen and a gel pen. if we look then all the properties, that we an object, now what its property? What will Its color will be Its type property. If we something else, it also some properties. So how to access How to use it? By So pen1.itsColor is equal to blue. In this way, pen1, blue. And now if we to type it, it is equal to gel. So this way, pen and type Now suppose we want something We had used by dot. Now how to call Means how to call this this pen1? So to call we will have to dot So what will happen We call it, pen1, so dot write. Something like this. We the entire code, now let's save it and run it to see what output will produce. So the output that have that, a has write something. What it First all, blue colour was assigned to then its type was assigned, then this write function was the help of and after that this system.out.println line was called. So this way, our classes and objects work.  Every object has some properties and  methods. These properties are like color, type, etc. are things associated with Along with are methods. These are the data and members Data and members are  stored in Data string, int. And  members are  its functions.  Now if we to the color and type then another method in Public  void. Print, color. And here we write this.color Now what this? This is actually a keyword of Now this printColor function will any object that And this will this function which object has called this Now we have taken only one color and one Now let's create one more pen So we have which we will newPen and this new pen we assign to we have to pen 2 we type we give to it ballpoint and now what we do is pen 1 and pen 2 we print color so if we call print 1 for pen 1 so print color is this the help of method will know which object has called It has by pen1. Then printColor will when printColor know that it pen2. That's this tells us any method, in any scope, that which object trying to access or Now this code once. running, first thing is the pen 1, then the pen 2. pen 1 is blue, pen 2 is black. So we have read what objects, what are classes and why this keyword is used in Java. Now another example. This time we will the of a student. So we will another class which we name as class student. Now we to pay attention to whenever we class, we the class keyword before So this is the syntax of making which we in Java Second, the names of that have already discussed start with capital letters. By convention, the Java start capital letters. functions start small letters. So, class called student. What properties can First of it have a name. Apart from we an age. Now, this student class.  Let's to print this So public void print name. this.name.  this.age. StudentS1 is equal to new student. Now, if s1.name, amen, and s1.age is equal to 24, now what we is, s1.printinfo, we printed info, saved our file, and we run it, now all the information be So, we both the information printed. Now, we make some changes again, same. Save and run  So we have updated information printed again. So we classes and objects in Now pay attention to a small line. Here it is student S1 is equal to new student. this line carefully. Here new is a keyword which we have talked about. As soon the new keyword, the memory heap. what will happen Our whole object will be stored there. So we according to the object. And here the student and parenthesis, this keyword is student  and parenthesis. Now if about parenthesis is used where function comes. So this is a function in This is special type of function which is called constructors. Now constructors mean?  constructing something, making something. Java, constructors is the objects of Now Java, there are three types constructors. That we three ways. The first type of constructors are non-parameterized constructors. Those constructors are those functions which do parameters. Now let's its three properties before First of all, the constructor of or a class will have the same name as the class name. That the name and the class name are the same. If we a student class, then its name will student. Secondly, constructors not return Constructions are functions, but they return anything. Neither do any return type. That means ink, string, float, all this does not work on Neither does void work. No return type written they objects.  And  third property is that one object, constructor  can once. Like normal functions, normal methods can again and again  by We can normal functions without again and But constructors are only once. When  is When an object is Now the  first type of constructor Now the first type of constructor, the non-parameterized constructor. So how make For example, if we to a constructor class, we will first write student. Now, the return type should but we write for the constructors. So we student. After parameters do we have We don't have to because it is non-parameterized constructor. And here we any statement, like we have here. constructor called. So, this way, we a constructor. And whenever this object is then this constructor will be called and we will this statement printed. Let's run our code. So, constructor called was printed first. That means, whenever was the object was then constructor called was printed. After rest of code was run.  Now, if we think that the constructor before, we deleted it, then also our code was so how was running? So actually, Java, if we don't any non-parameterized constructor in the class, then Java automatically default. So this constructor was Java itself, but now we our own, then Java called Now, second type of constructor, that is parameterized constructor. Now, if  we start parameters in is, we a name  and an age here.  So, we initialize by By these two statements from we  write this.name is equal to name.  This.name here is the name And this name is the parameter that has That's there a difference.  Along with if we this.age, we can this equal to age. Here this.age is the age and this is the of our argument which the constructor So here name and age have Now whenever we create here we to name and age in So we pass and amenAge 24. And after print information.  we we get name and then the age. So what did see? parameterized constructor. And then what did do? It assigned And finally, we the information printed from the function. Now third type of constructors are copy constructors. This concept has There are copy constructors which by default. user also be defined. But all the copy constructors It user-defined. copy constructor is to an object and another object. For example, if we had not got name and age in we would got another student. The second student, whom we have named S2. Now, student came S2 and what did is, we the S2.name And this.age, S2.age. We this constructor copy constructor. Because it student2 and its current object. Let's try it once. student1 because we that constructor. S1.name as Aman. S1.age as 24. Now we another student. Student S2.  New student. Now we will pass our uh S1 and the information  If we copy constructor, then we have this call sufficient before If we copy constructor, we this constructor as because it by default. So student, we simple empty constructor. Now if save it and run it, then we have Amman and 24 And we the code carefully, we never the properties We um directly assigned S1's properties to S2. So, we to a copy of  we make a constructor in pass the object inside and it copies all the properties. So,  all these were our concepts related to objects in classes. Along with this, we studied and studied what constructors are. Now we will study the different concepts  There are four major concepts in First, abstraction, encapsulation, then inheritance and then polymorphism. We these four concepts carefully. We any object-oriented language. These four concepts are included in Once we these four concepts, then whether we Java to C++ or C++ to Java, things will very easy The way the world is so Java. Meaning, there be a mechanism to that Like there constructors, there destructors as Because programmers are very smart. And in C++, like we constructors, we another function called destructor. But Java, this mechanism is automatic. That we destructor. There is an automatic garbage collector What garbage collector do? It the object being the variable that not being used, the memory that is So it intelligently whether the object is being or and it is in it automatically deletes it. That's we to destructors That's Java is an efficient language and it work very little. So whenever someone asks you how to destructors in then you destructors because Java has garbage collector. The concept we going to is called polymorphism. Polymorphism of two words. poly and morphism poly means many, very much morphism means forms when we one work in different ways in then we call it polymorphism now there are two types polymorphism first is function overloading second is function overriding first type is run-time polymorphism first type is compile-time polymorphism second type is run-time polymorphism here we compile-time polymorphism  When of inheritance in this video, we will later. Compiled time polymorphism  means function overloading. In  simple language, means that different functions but they have  the same name. It  that functions are different things but their names are the Now their names the same? We will it better um if  Now we had already created a student class. We two properties in Now let's we to a function public void print info. Now this print info function. Let's assume we to only name in So we passed and we wrote it. Print name. Now another function public void with print info.  and we pass the And this function,  we have  print the student's And a third function. public void print info string name int age And here we both things, i.e.  name. plus our age. Now we these three functions in the same class and these three functions is same. This thing, this implementation in Java or even C++ is called polymorphism. That means we the same function for different purposes. Now what the benefit of That we someObject.printInfo and only the information that to print in So automatically it see which function it that information. For if we already a student S1 and we need print its age for So call print info and pass the age of And save it and run it, then what output? We get 24. Similarly, let's that we to print Let's call it again. After we have our name and age. So, similar way, different functions, when they the same name, Java, this concept is called function overloading. Overloading means creating the same name functions in the same class. Now, it's not like we write here public void print info string name and public void print info string class. There some rules that have follow to overloading. First of there should be differentiating factor in these functions. Either the return type should If we to string name and string name then one return type be void, then the return type be void. Second thing, if their return type same, the parameters should different. If is a string type argument in then there should be an integer, float, or boolean in If this also the same, then there different number of arguments in That is, if we given a public void print info string name then if we a public void print info string name then we to another argument. Otherwise, an error. If we the intage then there will in our code. That's it's Compiled Time Polymorphism. Compiled Time Polymorphism means when the compilation of our code on, it detects that there problem. That have we polymorphism properly? In run-time polymorphism, the compiler can't find any errors If we make here, then errors will What run-time polymorphism? When the code runs, then errors will Which is more dangerous. Because if we we made a big app from now coders, programmers can run and see if there any problem in that can But if that app goes into production once, the users, and there are in runtime, and problems in then that is a big problem. Because a lot of users are impacted. That is we should to polymorphism, so we compile time more and runtime a little less. But both are because placements and both concepts should Now the next concept we will talk about is called inheritance. In English, means to one generation to the next. And Java, classes and objects, it means to the one class when someone other class. means it all properties, then we call as inheritance. For example, we made a class. We named Shape. Now this is Shape class and it has another property called Color. We a shape and give it a color. Now if different shapes. So rectangle is triangle is different, circle is different. These different shapes with different sizes. They have different area calculations, perimeter calculations. That's these can't in this shape class. So for we to class separately. So let's make a class separately, triangle. So what write in Extends  shape. So what happened Triangle class has extended, inherited.  We the properties of Shape class. Now, the triangle class, there will be a property even if we that property inside Let's the example. this, let's create We create an object triangle type. Now, if we colour for suppose we colour to red. So, what happened No error came. That means T1 already a colour existing in which we assigned Whereas, we define So, is called a class property score. Not properties, but methods. When the class inherits, that process is called inheritance. Now, there can be many uses For the example of there can be many buttons on Now, we always have of in an extended round rectangle. So, what we will do is, we will define the shape After the classes with different buttons will inherit it. So, the re-usability increases. Re-usability means we to the same code again and We the same code in all classes. The class from the properties are is called the base class. And the class the properties is called the subclass or child class. And base class is called the parent class. So, inheritance works this. There are 4 types There are 5 types C++ has multiple inheritance which is Java classes but Java is smart language so it interfaces. Now if about inheritance, there are 4 types of The first one is single level inheritance. Single level inheritance means there will a base class above and a derived class and a single level of inheritance will So let's an example of First of a class named Shape.  Shape class, we some of characteristics or some function.  So,  we a function. Public void area. this function do? The function's job is to display So, it displays area. Now, let's another class. So, this class Triangle.  Triangle is type of shape. So, we can say that whatever properties are they will automatically in the triangle. Along with that, there be additional properties So, let's a class here, triangle. Now, this triangle class has the shape class. That too, single-level inheritance. And inheritance, we a keyword in which we call extends. So we will write class triangle extends. Which class is being extended? What our base class? Our base class is shape. So syntax is something like this. First we write derived class, then write extends keyword, then we our base class. So this way, all the properties of will our triangle class. Now all the properties will but we will learn thing when axis modifiers. But now let's that all the properties are there. So the triangle class, we again create an area function. And this area function? First of the parameters. a triangle, we will the  length  and  its height.  And we will write half into length into height. This is our triangle's area. So, type of inheritance is called single-level inheritance. level below the inheritance. Now, there is another type of inheritance. The second type is multi-level inheritance. Multi-level means one level. Now, have a shape here. The triangle has extended Now, another class which is called equilateral triangle. Now equilateral triangle will be triangle. Equilateral triangle is a triangle whose sides are equal. The properties of will equilateral triangle by That's equilateral triangle will derived class And in this equilateral triangle, we can another function. Let's we the same function again. We the  same parameters again. Length is our height. And inside we  be our area.  So this way, multiple levels have Basically two levels have The first base class was our shape. A triangle  An equilateral triangle This is we have chained inheritance, which is called multi-level inheritance. The third type of inheritance is hierarchical inheritance. Hierarchical inheritance means that there only one base class and multiple derived classes have the same base class. For example, we an example here, the shape is inherited by the triangle class. Now another class, which we call circle. Let's the shape class and make an area which the area. Now the circle area is very easy, we know it. Bye. Odd. So in this way, the triangle class is also shaped class. The the circle class is also a shaped class. That's this type of inheritance is called hierarchical inheritance. A hierarchy is formed. First comes our base class. Then comes our different derived classes. fourth type of inheritance in Java is called a hybrid inheritance. In we different types of inheritance in same place. any branch, we single inheritance, multi-level inheritance, or hierarchical inheritance. There is a fifth type of inheritance called multiple inheritance. Multiple inheritance is in Java, is C++. In Java, we use to implement We will see how it is Here we our inheritance. The next topic we will about is Encapsulation. Before encapsulation, we two things. What are our packages in Java and what our access modifiers. First of let's about packages. If a package, we know is a in English. A is that a carting and put related items in Meaning the same items. Like you a package of pens, erasers, pencils. Similarly, things have logically Logically, things shouldn't be this because we thousands of lines code whenever we big companies. And if a new person team, he the same code, so becomes difficult to things We also forget what code wrote so code very well so that the meaning. Now, way to good format is to packages in Java. We related code For we an example, if we about a website, there be a lot of things in There can one thing that only buttons. There can thing that only color Or its look is to handled. There can thing that the user's data. Now these three different parts of a website. So them, if we to any inbuilt functions, then what do? all properties. Make the properties of Along with that, user's data needs to be modified, deleted, added, all the things will functional. Make separate package for So way, different packages functions. Now Java, there are two types of packages in First, those that already exist which we call built-in packages. Second, those that the user. That we can our own packages. Now if talk about built-in packages, we might not have realized it, but we lot of Java packages so For example, if we want to some input in then we the Scanner class. To the class, we to a statement on import java.util.star After we the scanner class. actually, this java.util is a package in Which already lot of related classes, utility classes, utility functions, which we can directly use. There are many more like linked list, data structures, stacks, queues, hash maps, linked hash maps, trees, we classes and packages at time. So there are packages like and this package is basically related items, you them together so that you make that you make logic of First, we will create a new file for We will as Bank. We will name Public Class Bank. Now, we will store this of Bank.java. Now, a new folder. this folder Bank and this file there. First all, the package as Bank. We have it. and put it the folder So here we our package and our Bank Class. Now this Bank Class, we all information related which there may be our employees, accounts created, etc. So first of let's a class, which we account. Now this account class, will store some basic information. which, our string name public and import the oops class. a we to import it first. importing, we will write bank. So, we the bank name package. And we will use We will write here bank.account. We will account1 of new bank.account. and we account1 for the account is for our customer1 so this way we can the other package in our package and our package in the other package Now before moving ahead, let's about something access modifiers Access modifiers are four types three types Access Modifiers means defining what will accessible to We  have a of resources. A class stores a lot of information. Some  information sensitive like our passwords which we to all files. Let's there  is big system of company in the accounts department is There are functionalities software for The tech team is also working. There are some software for too. Along with we have some software Now  we don't want the accounts team, which are business transactions of or the internal transactions of of company, by  our tech team or our management team. In same way, the sensitive information that which file should And these different types information in Java four types, which are  our public, private, protected, and um For  example, we have a public string name. Now, if we our main function in public static void main. this function, then our main function is also public. Why it necessary Because when the compiler works in Java runtime environment, then we have find which class to start execution That's  we main class as private protected.  We to public so that accessible. Now, we Now, we an account in Account 1. account 1, we made a new account. So, new object. Now, account 1. So, named it Apna College. So, what happened We our public name here in our main function. Now the type of access modifier is default. Now we have by Now we have to specify by Default already exists. That means of any parameter, any property, of any function, if you don't apply then it default type. Default type means that within its package. Only another package will to access i.e. we put the name of in only those packages will our default. Now if we public from then the name will be our default type. Now third type of access modifier we is protected. Protected means that in its package. Along with if to another package, then only subclasses. The rest cannot access. i.e. if we protected here, and then write a string email. So this email information can the second package by all classes and anyone can here we account 1, for we write email. 4th type of access modifier is private. private outside the class. can within means, if anything private then only the account class can it. Neither its subclasses will nor any other class will it, nor any other package will be allowed it. That means, bank class can't of account class. For we create a string password So here if we try to account1, ABCD, then it  possible. Here the error came, the field account password is not visible. That means this bank class, account class, like its password is visible, you reset Now question, then private things? So for them, there is a concept of getters and setters  So whenever something private, we two types functions in The first type of function is called getters. Getters means that  private thing. And other type of functions are setters. Meaning that private thing. So this way, directly that private thing. Instead, we a function for Meaning what have to do is if we get we a function for Public string  get password. the get password,  We will return this.password. And this.password is returned. So this is our getter. Now we also a setter. In some cases, the password by and we a setter for So let's do setPassword here. Let's a string named pass. And this.password with string pass. Let's make it public void because it return So we made this getter. We have made this as a setter. Now, we will do is first all the password. So, in the set password. Our password is abcd. And after that, we print it. So, account1.getPassword. So, getPassword. If we save this and run it, then our account1 password And us, output is abcd. So, this way, private functions. If we want to, we the option to the user. The password is set. Now, it can't be set So, can remove completely. it private. If we the function private, then we won't from the bank class. You will think what is use of It used to call a set password automatically and a random password. So, the set password cannot by this class. But our getPassword function can So, many OOP concepts can in to real world problems. we have read packages and access modifiers. Now let's talk about what encapsulation meant. So indirectly we encapsulation. Encapsulation means Desi language that you data and its functions in one entity. That whenever you a class, then you do data and its functions. Data means the properties of Functions means the methods We and one eh unit.  We this unit Java. Now, we call  thing Encapsulation. Encapsulation English means encapsulating So, we the data and its functions,  properties and methods in one  unit. So, classes and objects means is encapsulation. With the encapsulation,  data hiding is possible  in Java. Data hiding means you some data that you want user, the sensitive data. So how do we implement the access modifiers. We which data private, protected, public, and how it be hidden. Apart from fourth main pillar of OOPS is Java, which we call abstraction. Abstraction means important things  Showing and non-important things from oh abstraction and data hiding. We  will after abstraction that what is the difference between Abstraction means showing important things and useless things from Now, oh abstraction in Java in two ways. First, you use the abstract keyword to abstract classes, functions, properties.  Second is to interfaces. First we will discuss what is abstract class and what is abstraction.  We our original class oops and save it. This is our class  and we will abstraction. Now let's we want to an animal.  animal, first we a blueprint. After we different types of animals.   Now, different types of animals, uh we understand that a class  is its base class in inheritance. And the blueprint is its class. So first, let's an animal's blueprint and  different animals. Now, a class called Animal. There be some functions in first function  is Public Void Walk.  So, the can We have a function Now,  animal class will a new class. We name that Horse. So, what the Horse class do? extends the animal. In which we the walk function again. Public void walk.  And we display Walks on four legs. Now, another class.  We call it chicken.  Chicken is also an animal.  Extends. Animal. Public void walk.  We display in Walks on two legs. far I remember. So now we two classes. Horse class and chicken class. Both classes extend And we have  made a walk function  Now question is that whenever we a horse or chicken, do we in the animal class? Because all the properties of are directly the horse class chicken class. So can we there and see if the user has the right to and walk So here, a way, the animal class is irrelevant. We don't need And we won't an object anyway. Why? Because an animal is a specific animal that we an object of. We can new horse from We can new chicken from There is no type So we need to So this class abstract. Abstract class. How the abstract class? We wrote the keyword abstract Abstract means English language that there is a concept. There is a thought, a blueprint. It doesn't have It just exists. We can We can create But we actually use So, class is also like that. We it a concept that there must There must be 3-4 things in But the actual animals that will be horse and a chicken. It's not an it's just a concept. This is we made it abstract. And now the abstract class, we can make some properties, some functions abstract. For this walk function has function. This function only exists. Now we  want that whatever animal class we it walk function  because all animals can  That's we this walk function but it no use. We can this function abstract. And here we abstract void walk. And this function abstract, then we its implementation. We putting a semicolon here. There will be a function called that every type animal. So if we a horse and chicken then there be a function called in So this is abstract class. Now when we the animal, we have a walk, chicken. Now in  the main class? a  horse type horse. And that we will call .walk. We will save it and run it So our output we will have walks on four legs. So is  how abstraction is How done? Oops! Inside or whenever we an object.  So here if we animal type, animal animal is equal to new animal. So what happened Let's walk for Let's  save it run it. So as soon we animal, there an error here that cannot instantiate the type animal. Here, instantiate means to initiate, create. Here, an animal type object. Why can't make it? Because animal is an abstract concept. It's concept, it's a blueprint. It can't actually be created. And the type of error we here is called runtime error. There no red line When it was run, the error came. So that runtime error. That's why if we... If we some concepts incorrectly, then we can't detect When they need to on runtime, then we can detect them. That's we OOPS concepts very well. Now let's some properties of our abstract class. The first property is that the class must be declared with abstract keyword. It can both abstract and non-abstract methods. Here we made If we wanted, we normal method without the abstract. Public void eats. print animal eats. We have made a function by doing animal eats. We can call eat for Horse doesn't have eat function but it has inherited all properties. It can So, we can print first walks on four legs then eats. Third thing is it cannot be instantiated, it can have constructors and static methods also. If we cross the constructor, we create a constructor here. If we create a constructor for we can in you are creating a new animal. Let's save this. And if these two here, if we a constructor of horse inside we will write created a horse. What do We animal in the animal class, a horse in the horse class. And now this code. the main function, carefully what we a horse. So, as soon we created first we wrote you are creating a new animal, then we created a horse. So what find First all, call was made the animal constructor, then call was the horse constructor. That whenever you of derived class, the base class constructor is then the derived class constructor is This concept is called constructor chaining in that is, the of constructors runs whenever you in inheritance. After that, talk, it can have final methods which will force the subclass not to change the body of the method.  There some functions that finalized, which if you want, you all the functions in way. For if we  Herbivores, we in Eats that Herbivores, the animals, will all the plants, you can't change So, kinds of concepts  keep Now, let's talk about the second type of abstraction that uses interfaces. Interfaces have pure abstraction.  Here we have added the function which can use and chicken. And this function is not abstract, still Java has it. So this not pure abstraction. Pure abstraction will all useless information and all useful information for the user. So this pure abstraction comes in with the help Interfaces are only some of fixed properties. Let's define with the interface keyword. We'll interface and then write whatever name want to we animal name. Now in this interface animal, what to is to a walk function. We'll write void. Walk. So our whole animal is defined. Now here we want to the animal constructor. So that possible, we error in because the constructors cannot there. Now if we to create a voidEat here. So we error because there should be no non-abstract function There be implementation of So we cannot implement the property of will the specific animal. That means if we class Horse And we don't extend here, we the interfaces in So we'll the keyword implements, animal. And we've implemented so all its properties are there. So now what have do is, the walk function again. Here we've defined it, and we implement it So we'll void walk. Walks on four legs. Here we public, here also we public. So here we call Walk. Let's recap. We animal interface. We made an abstract function Then the horse implemented the animal and it implemented Implemented means used. Now let's some of properties Interfaces are which all the fields are Meaning, whatever variables we define, they  by default public, static and final. m Public, static and final. If  we want to the number of  we  fixed number of eyes. The  properties for will all animals.  We can't change So, static  for all animals. It will the value will fixed and it public. It everyone will accessible. The second property is methods are public and abstract by default. We this method void. Even we public from this method is by default abstract and public There an abstract keyword in public keyword either. But when we implement then we a public keyword in If we this public keyword from here, then there will be error. The error will because if public not written of the walk, then by default access modifier will default. But we should have public. This is by default public because it is an interface. Now we about inheritance, we multiple inheritance. Multiple inheritance means two base classes and one single derived class is used by Now it is not possible in Java classes but can How? If we an interface animal and another interface which we Herbivore. So this interface we can implement the animal in the horse. and also implement because the horse is an animal and also herbivore that only plants. this way, both classes at This is called multiple inheritance, which Java with classes, with interfaces. This often interviews. That's why we emphasis on That's why we should it. Now we many concepts. Let's last thing, small thing, which is called static. We static keyword in again and Especially when we main function. We main function as public static void main. Now we main, void and public. What static mean in There is a special keyword in Static means the thing that accessible like We tell to those properties which are common Like... If we an example of a class,  let's we make student. So the class, we will  define its string, some name, then we will its school name. Now we every  student? No. We the entire student class. So that, we will make it static.  So as soon as we the school static, means all the objects in will have same name for Let's how we the main function. First, we student.school. now, we the student class first, then to access things by But the things we static, static methods, static variables, we can access them That means we student.school here as jmv. So if error, we directly access static things because they class objects. Objects are private objects like the name. The static is for all objects. Now student.school. Let's a student too. Student1 is equal to new student. student1, we write the Suppose we wrote Tony. So we wrote this. So student1. But we it school because it is static. for that, student.school. But here we also print for student1. school. If and run it, then what will be Student1's school. Which is JMV. But if suppose the school name changes So school name changes, suppose of JMV, if it becomes After that, all the students. So, static is made for those properties that we want to common. Now, if we school name separately, store then what we have to do? every student. Here, we update Some these functions can also static, which the class, which we call Like public static void change school. So, all the students, if we change So, here can do school is equal to new school. So, the has automatically detected that the school we talking about is our static school. We it new school. So, this way, the static variable will changed Now, static keyword in Java Either we it of like we have it Or we it of functions. Or we it of blocks. That if we a block static, then how should it? or we can in nested classes. Now, static keyword in memory is all the things that are static in given memory only once and the objects are given to memory again and again. That's whenever we to save memory and we have common information, we that variable, that function static. So, this way, we all the concepts of oops in Java. All these concepts are important because they are used whenever you your internship or Java to a project or even switching you have done this, you will web development, app development, some other language C++, will use Or if you to good code then you should know how to organize OOFs is things systematically, some good concepts so that our can be better. We can create system in the code by in That's we the OOPS concept. Along with we lot of questions in many rounds, our OOPS knowledge is checked very well. If we C++, then C++ and Java's OOPS concepts overlap. So if you Java or C++. You have half of the same concepts. Now some extra things according to the language. So I hope that today's class. Apart from you any other video, you can comment below. today. next video. Till then keep learning and keep practicing.